Fall is the height of the apple harvest, making it the perfect time to enjoy the fruit.

From how you should pick apples at the grocery store to where in your kitchen you should keep fruits and vegetables, there are plenty of things to consider when it comes to keeping produce fresh.

Keep reading for more tips on how to store your apples to keep them fresh and crisp.

Check for ripeness before you buy
Apples continue to ripen even after they're picked, especially when they're left at room temperature. If you are looking to make your apples last as long as possible, try to buy apples before they're fully ripe. Look out for firmness, but not waxiness, and avoid apples with soft spots.

Don't store fruits and vegetables together
apple and vegetables
Fruits and vegetables shouldn't be stored together.SuzanaMarinkovic/iStock
When apples ripen, they produce ethylene, a gas that can cause other produce nearby to ripen prematurely. For the sake of all the produce in your fridge, it's best to keep ethylene-producing fruits separate from ethylene-sensitive vegetables, like broccoli and cauliflower.

Apples will last longer in the refrigerator
apple refrigerator
This apple should go straight into the crisper drawer.cookelma/iStock
Keeping apples in a cool, dark place will help them stay crisp. The best way to keep apples fresh is to store them in the crisper drawer of your refrigerator in separate plastic bags. Alternatively, you can place a damp towel on top of the apples to help them maintain moisture.

For long-term storage, wrap apples separately
There's actually some scientific truth to the old saying, "one bad apple spoils the whole bunch." Wrapping apples individually when storing them in the refrigerator or another cold, dark place is beneficial because a spoiled apple can cause other apples to decay more rapidly.

Use lemon juice to prevent sliced apples from browning
bad apple
No one likes browned apples.daoleduc/iStock
Once you've already sliced your apples, whether they're going into a salad or straight into your lunch box, you'll want to prevent them from browning. Apples tend to turn brown after they've been cut because doing so allows oxygen to reach the plant tissue, causing the fruit to release an enzyme that oxidizes it. Think of it as edible rust.

Brushing apple slices with lemon juice will slow the enzymatic browning process, keeping your apples looking fresher for longer.