It has been another challenging year for apple growers in the Georgian Bay area, with some estimates placing the crop at least 20 per cent less than a normal growing season.
But there is a bit of a silver lining as consumers should be able to get their hands on some excellent fruit from this year's crop.
“I think the estimate originally was down 20 per cent, and I think people are finding they are down at least that,” said Brian Gilroy, local director and past president of the Ontario Apple Growers. “But the quality of the fruit has been great and the size has been better than average.”
Harvest is in full swing, and in most cases almost complete, in and around Meaford, Thornbury and Clarksburg, which is the province's biggest apple growing area because of the unique micro climate provided by the combination of the Niagara Escarpment and the cool waters of Georgian Bay.
But Gilroy, who owns Nighthawk Orchards south of Meaford, said apple producers are always looking for “normal” weather, and this year they have experienced anything but that.
“I am wearing my shorts today and that could be the first time ever I have worn them out in the orchard on October 10,” said Gilroy. “It has been nice to work in, but actually in September it was too hot to pick.”
Gilroy said a number of factors often go into determining how an apple crop will be each year. According to the Ontario Apple Growers, last summer's long stretches of dry weather all across southern Ontario, including locally as well as along Lake Ontario and Lake Erie, put a strain on the trees and they weren't able to recover this year. 
“The trees were stressed last year, there is no doubt about it,” said Gilroy. “Now we have gone from the driest year in 50 to maybe the wettest year ever during the growing season.”
Gilroy said the abnormal weather led to what has been an inconsistent crop. Some trees are laden with fruit, while others may only have half-a-dozen apples on them.
“It is just a very inconsistent and spotty crop,” said Gilroy. “And it has been very, very fast. Ideally we would pick until the end of October, but we are going to be finished in the next couple of days.”
While the heat in September helped crops such as corn and soybeans catch up some, Gilroy said it was probably the worst thing that could happen for some varieties of apples.
“Early colour on the fruit was great, but stuff that needed to colour later in the season, because of that heat, it didn't colour,” said Gilroy. “It is superficially important, but for fancy apples it is very important.”
Gilroy said other factors, such as hail that fell in June and winds that blew through in recent weeks, impacted farmers in the area in different ways.
Gilroy's orchards south of the town of Meaford avoided the hail, while orchards northwest of the town were impacted heavily by the hail.
But his orchards did feel the impact of a couple of windy nights that led to some mature apples being knocked off the trees.
“We are slaves to Mother Nature and she hasn't been that kind this year,” said Gilroy, who still has yet to determine if there are enough “grounders” to be picked up to be made into juice.
“With labour going up as high as it is and the price we get for the apples not keeping pace, a lot of people are just leaving the grounders now.”
But many of the apples that remained on the trees are very nice ones.
“We just took out a couple of bins of Macs and packed some up and they were just gorgeous – big, beautiful and nice flavour,” said Gilroy. “There will still be lots of apples for the consumers, it is just a lighter than average crop, and considerably lighter.”
Bill Vail of Vail's Orchards, northwest of Meaford, did feel the impact of the early-season hails as it left him with a cider apple crop as opposed to a fresh market apple crop.
“Our crop was completely hailed, but the other side of Meaford is good and Thornbury is good,” said Vail.
“We have had to buy for our fruit markets because all our apples were hailed out.”
The cold and wet spring has also contributed to there being fewer apples on the trees.
“The crop is actually picking out a lot less than we all anticipated,” said Vail. “The size of apples seems to be good and they are free of insects or pest problems. 
“Everything is good other than the fact there are not as many as we would like to have.”
Vail said that while the growing season wasn't the best, harvest season has been going good. Vail said they are almost done, which is two weeks earlier than normal.
“The weather has been good, it is easy for picking and we haven't had too many days of rain,” said Vail. “The extra heat in September matured everything up and brought everything in sooner.”