Pad, iPhone, Apple Watch, and Mac are the most intuitive, engaging, and powerful tools for business. With innovative hardware, software, and services that deliver an amazing user experience, Apple empowers today’s modern workforce to do something truly great.
It’s never been easier to find the right tools for your business. Shop online, visit an Apple Store, or call us to speak with a member of the Business Team. We’ll help you get the perfect products, configure them the way you want, and find the business services you need to grow.
The moment you open your MacBook, its gorgeous 12-inch Retina display with edge-to-edge glass brings everything into focus. Every photo leaps off the screen in rich, vibrant detail. Over 3 million pixels render each letter with crystal clarity. And it all comes to light on the thinnest Retina display ever on a Mac, meticulously honed to deliver a bold visual experience within an impossibly minimal design.
We believe that a comfortable, full-size keyboard is essential for a great notebook experience. But to fit one into the elegantly thin MacBook, we had to completely rethink how a keyboard is engineered and constructed. We redesigned each key and its underlying mechanism — not only making the whole keyboard much thinner, but also allowing for more comfortable, precise, and responsive typing that just feels right.
Our goal with MacBook was to do the impossible: engineer a full‑size experience into the lightest and most compact Mac notebook ever. That meant reimagining every element to make it not only lighter and thinner but also better. The result is more than just a new notebook. It’s the future of the notebook. And now, with sixth‑generation Intel processors, improved graphics performance, faster flash storage, and up to 10 hours of battery life,* MacBook is even more capable.
We gave a lot of consideration to the way MacBook connects to peripherals and power. We chose USB-C for its compact design and versatility. This single port lets you connect your charger; HDMI, DisplayPort, and VGA displays; USB devices like external drives; and your iPhone or iPad. All of which goes to show that sometimes less really is more.
A range of accessories lets you connect virtually any device to your MacBook. For instance, the USB-C Digital AV Multiport Adapter lets you connect your MacBook to an HDMI display, as well as a standard USB device and a USB-C charging cable.
Battery life varies by use and configuration; see www.apple.com/batteries for more information.
In this frequently updated feature we will be telling the story of Apple. We start with the early days, the tale of how Apple was founded, moving on through the Apple I, to the Apple II, the launch of the Macintosh and the revolution in the DTP industry... To the tech-industry behemoth that we know and love today.
So sit back as we take a stroll down memory lane. Why not brush up on what really happened before you go and watch the new Steve Jobs movie, with its interesting interpretations of several important events in the company's history? Keep checking back for more as we tell the story in regular installments.
Where to buy your iPhone 7? Find out how to get the best price on an iPhone 7 today. .
On 1 April 1976 Apple was founded, making the company 40 years old as of the 1 April 2016 - here's a historical breakdown of the company.
The history of everyone's favourite start-up is a tech fairytale of one garage, three friends and very humble beginnings. But we're getting ahead of ourselves…
The two Steves - Jobs and Wozniak - may have been Apple's most visible founders, but were it not for their friend Ronald Wayne there might be no iPhone, iPad or iMac today. Jobs convinced him to take 10% of the company stock and act as an arbiter should he and Woz come to blows, but Wayne backed out 12 days later, selling for just $500 a holding that today would be worth $72bn.
Jobs met Woz at the Homebrew Computer Club; a gathering of enthusiasts in a garage in California's Menlo Park. Woz had seen his first MITS Altair there - which today looks like little more than a box of lights and circuit boards - and was inspired by MITS' build-it-yourself approach (the Altair came as a kit) to make something simpler for the rest of us. You can see this philosophy shining through in Apple’s products today.
So he produced the the first computer with a typewriter-like keyboard and the ability to connect to a regular TV. Later christened the Apple I, it was the archetype of every modern computer, but Wozniak wasn't trying to change the world with what he'd produced - he just wanted to show off how much he'd managed to do with so few resources.
Speaking to NPR in 2006, he explained that "When I built this Apple I… the first computer to say a computer should look like a typewriter - it should have a keyboard - and the output device is a TV set, it wasn't really to show the world [that] here is the direction [it] should go [in]. It was to really show the people around me, to boast, to be clever, to get acknowledgement for having designed a very inexpensive computer."
It almost didn't happen, though. The Woz we know now has a larger-than-life personality - he's funded rock concerts and shimmied on Dancing with the Stars - but, as he told the Sydney Morning Herald, "I was shy and felt that I knew little about the newest developments in computers." He came close to ducking out altogether, and giving the Club a miss.
Let's be thankful he didn't. Jobs saw the computer, recognised its brilliance, and sold his VW microbus to help fund its production. Wozniak sold his HP calculator, and together they founded Apple Computer Inc on 1 April 1976, alongside Ronald Wayne - now making Apple a 40 year old company!
The foundation of Apple: The inspiration for the name
The name was to cause Apple problems in later years as it came uncomfortably close to the Beatles' publisher, Apple Corps, but its genesis was innocent enough.
Speaking to Byte magazine in December 1984, Woz credited Jobs with the idea. "He was working from time to time in the orchards up in Oregon. I thought that it might be because there were apples in the orchard or maybe just its fructarian nature. Maybe the word just happened to occur to him. In any case, we both tried to come up with better names but neither one of us could think of anything better after Apple was mentioned."
The foundation of Apple: Selling the Apple I
Woz built each computer by hand, and although he'd wanted to sell them for little more than the cost of their parts - at a price at that would recoup their outlay if they shipped 50 units - Jobs had bigger ideas.
He priced the Apple I at $666.66, and inked a deal with the Byte Shop in Mountain View to supply it with 50 computers at $500 each. Byte Shop was going out on a limb: the Apple I didn't exist in any great numbers, and the nascent Apple Computer Inc didn't have the resources to fulfil the order. Neither could it get them. Atari, where Jobs worked, wanted cash for any components it sold him, a bank turned him down for a loan, and although he had an offer of $5,000 from a friend's father, it wasn't enough.
In the end, it was Byte Shop's purchase order that sealed the deal. Jobs took it to Cramer Electronics and, as Walter Isaacson explains in Steve Jobs: The Exclusive Biography, he convinced Cramer's manager to call Paul Terrell, owner of Byte Shop, to verify the order.
"Terrell was at a conference when he heard over a loudspeaker that he had an emergency call (Jobs had been persistent). The Cramer manager told him that two scruffy kids had just walked in waving an order from the Byte Shop. Was it real? Terrell confirmed that it was, and the store agreed to front Jobs the parts on thirty-day credit."
The 6100 was released in concert with the beefier Power Macintosh 7100, which had been developed under the internal codename 'Carl Sagan'. It was a convoluted choice, based on the belief that the computer was so brilliant it would make the company 'Billions and Billions', which just happened to be the name of a book written by astronomer Carl Sagan, who used to stress the letter 'B' when saying the word 'billions' so people wouldn't confuse it with millions.
Although it was never used to market the 7100, Sagan claimed that customers might have considered the codename, which was revealed in a magazine, to imply that he endorsed the product. He wrote to the magazine, asking them to make it clear that he did not, at which point Apple's development team re-named the computer BHA, for Butt-Head Astronomer. Sagan sued for libel and lost, with the court ruling that "one does not seriously attack the expertise of a scientist using the undefined phrase 'butt-head'".
The PowerPC line enjoyed a good innings, but by the middle of this century's first decade, fractures were starting to appear in the alliance and the platform wasn't evolving quickly enough to keep consumers happy. Apple's high-end notebook, the PowerBook, was starting to look a little underpowered, and in an effort to push the processor in the Power Mac G5 beyond its native rating, it produced three special editions that employed a sophisticated water cooling system that allowed it to overclock the processor without it overheating.
Those in the know began talking about parallel teams working inside Apple HQ on a version of OS X that would run on Intel processors. The gossip was never confirmed, but the fact it had even been mooted meant Jobs' 2005 announcement that the company would shift its entire line-up to Intel hardware was less of a shock than it might have been.
Jumping ship just four years after the introduction of OS X would have been too big a move for many CEOs, who might have been afraid that they'd frighten away their customers. As Macworld wrote, 'It was a big gamble for a company that had relied on PowerPC processors since 1994, but Jobs argued that it was a move Apple had to make to keep its computers ahead of the competition. "As we look ahead... we may have great products right now, and we've got some great PowerPC product[s] still yet to come," Jobs told the audience at the 2005 Worldwide Developers Conference. "[But] we can envision some amazing products we want to build for you and we don't know how to build them with the future PowerPC road map."'
You might have expected developers to be up in arms: after decades of honing their code to run smoothly on PowerPC architecture, they'd have to throw it away and start from scratch, but Apple gave them a crutch, at least in the interim. Rather than cut off support for legacy code from day one, it built a runtime layer into OS X Tiger (10.4), called Rosetta, a name inspired by the Rosetta Stone, the multi-lingual engravings on which were the key to understanding hieroglyphics.
This interim layer intercepted Power G3, G4 and AltiVec instructions and converted them, on the fly, to Intel-compatible code. There would have been a slight performance hit, naturally, but it was an impressive stopgap, and one that Apple maintained until it shipped Lion. (Although Snow Leopard, the last iteration to support it and the first for which there was no PowerPC release, didn't install it by default - you had to add it manually.)
PowerPC lives on, not only in the countless legacy Macs that are still putting in good service, but in consumer devices like the Wii U, PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, as well as in faceless computing applications where it's a popular choice for embedded processing.
Apple, Inc. engages in the design, manufacture, and marketing of mobile communication, media devices, personal computers, and portable digital music players. The firm offers products and services under the iPhone, iPad, Mac, iPod, Apple Watch, and Apple TV brands; consumer and professional software applications under the iOS, OS, X, and watchOS brands; and operating systems under the iCloud and Apple Pay brands. It operates through the following segments: Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan, and Rest of Asia Pacific. The company was founded by Steven Paul Jobs, Ronald Gerald Wayne, and Stephen G. Wozniak on April 1, 1976 and is headquartered in Cupertino, CA.
Apple is a prominent hardware and software company best known for its series of personal computers, the iPod and its innovative marketing strategies for its products.
Introduced in 1984, the Macintosh was the first widely sold personal computer with a graphical user interface (GUI). That feature and others -- such as an improved floppy drive design and a low-cost hard drive that made data retrieval faster and more reliable -- helped Apple cultivate a reputation for innovation, which the company still enjoys today. The Apple headquarters are located in Cupertino, CA, at 1-5 Infinite Loop. Apple borrowed the name for the circular road around their office buildings from programming, where an infinite loop is the term for a code sequence lacking a functional exit.
Apple was founded by Steven Jobs and Stephen Wozniak. Jobs and Wozniak had been friends in high school and in 1975 were members of The Homebrew Computer Club, a now-legendary group where electronics enthusiasts met to discuss the Altair 8800 (the only personal computer available at the time) and other technical topics. Wozniak designed his own microcomputer and offered his plans to Hewlett-Packard, where he was working as an engineering intern. After HP turned him down, Wozniak joined forces with Jobs to manufacture personal computers in Job's garage. That endeavor started out as a shoestring operation, but quickly became successful. The pair introduced a relatively modern-looking computer in a plastic case in 1977 and incorporated as Apple Computer that same year. By 1980 the company had grown to include over 1000 employees.
1976 - Apple is founded by Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak.
1976 - The original Apple computer company logo of Sir Isaac Newton sitting under an apple tree is replaced by the well known rainbow colored apple with a bite out of it.
1976 - Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak demonstrate the first Apple computer at the Home Brew Computer Club.
Apple's approach to consumer products is fundamentally different from most other companies who work in their space. This differentiation colors every element of their brand interactions with consumers, from retail experience to product design to marketing and PR.
While many companies look to focus group testing, consumer personas and market research to drive their product decisions, Apple, as a group of individuals, builds the products that they, themselves, would like to be able to use. This means that, instead of an enormous matrix of products to fit every consumer segment, Apple makes a tightly focused product line that emphasizes quality in both construction and user experience. They skip the low-end entirely, seeking the mid-range and high-end of the market instead.
Design itself, in Apple land, is a tight and minimalist affair. Steve Jobs is often quoted as remarking that "design is how it works, not how it looks." As a result, Apple product marketing seldom emphasizes screen resolution, RAM, clock speed, or other spec list items, as these seem to be viewed as implementation details for a larger goal. Indeed, the first iPad's specs were positively anemic compared to even cheaper notebooks, especially with its paltry 256 MB of RAM.
Instead of specs and features, Apple focuses on end-to-end integration of both software and hardware. While a given Apple product may not be good at everything, Apple will ensure it's very good at some specific set of tasks, while being reliable, easy to use and reasonably intuitive. While netbooks and pre-iPad tablets shipped with many USB connectors, external DVD-ROM drives, and physical keyboards, the iPad had none of these things. But also presented a superior experience for browsing the web and other content with a double or triple the battery life.
Apple marketing and communications have been a weird beast since the return of Steve Jobs. Jobs led the company's secretive big surprise-style announcements, dropping fully-formed, (mostly) ready to buy products suddenly into the world. The attention these announcements commanded grew steadily over the last decade. The mystery around Apple's product development, and the excitement with which new goodies were announced, were enough to capture the imagination of the press, who grew desperate for even the tiniest of Apple rumors. Most other companies announce their stuff well in advance, so there's much less excitement at release.
From a retail perspective, Apple has made some interesting choices that make it stand out. Every single product in Apple's lineup is available to be touched, used and experimented with, so that prospective customers can quickly size up their options. This is a departure from retail stores with plastic dummy phones and PCs that have been locked down into some sort of demo mode. These outposts also mean that Apple customers have a place to go when things break. The support is also surprisingly accommodating, at least in my experience. It's not clear why these stores bother with policy, as a polite request to bend the rules is generally all that's necessary to get satisfaction. (Sometimes even the request is unnecessary – I was once given a free iPad replacement when I brought in my damaged screen for a repair.)
There's even more to it than this, but these are the obvious elements. All of them in combination produce a brand and products that stand out from the commodified consumer electronics space in a big way. As these all optimize, in some sense, toward user experience, and thus, user happiness, the enthusiasm isn't a surprise.
With regard to the annual iPhone update, bear in mind that a great many consumer electronics companies release several different models over the course of a year. Apple concentrates the innovations of their R&D pipeline into single monolithic releases annually, rather than spreading them out over a few models. Is this a better deal for the consumer? I'd venture it is – it means a far simpler purchase experience, at the least, as no one has to compare spec sheets to know what kind of deal they're getting relative to their alternatives in the product line. Anyone who's tried to buy a car GPS knows what kind of misery that can be.
