Delicious and crunchy apple fruit is notable for its impressive list of phtyto-nutrients, and anti-oxidants. Studies suggest that its components are essential for optimal growth, development, and overall wellness.
Apples are low in calories; 100 g of fresh fruit slices provide just 50 calories. They, however, contain no saturated fats or cholesterol. Nonetheless, the fruit is rich in dietary fiber, which helps prevent absorption of dietary-LDL or bad cholesterol in the gut. The fiber also saves the colon mucous membrane from exposure to toxic substances by binding to cancer-causing chemicals inside the colon.
Apples are rich in antioxidant phyto-nutrients flavonoids and polyphenolics. The total measured anti-oxidant strength (ORAC value) of 100 g apple fruit is 5900 TE. Some of the important flavonoids in apples are quercetin, epicatechin, and procyanidin B2. Additionally, they are also good in tartaric acid that gives tart flavor to them. Altogether, these compounds help the body protect from deleterious effects of free radicals.
Apple contains good quantities of vitamin-C and beta-carotene. Vitamin C is a powerful natural antioxidant. Consumption of foods rich in vitamin C helps the body develop resistance against infectious agents and scavenge harmful, pro-inflammatory free radicals from the body.
Further, apple is a good source of B-complex vitamins such as riboflavin, thiamin, and pyridoxine (vitamin B-6). Together, these vitamins help as co-factors for enzymes in metabolism as well as in various synthetic functions inside the human body.
Apples also carry a small amount of minerals like potassium, phosphorus, and calcium. Potassium is an important component of cell and body fluids helps controlling heart rate and blood pressure; thus, counters the bad influences of sodium.
Fresh apples can be readily available in the stores all around the season. Choose fresh, bright, firm textured apples with rich flavor. Avoid fruits with pressure marks over their surface as they indicate underlying mottled pulp.
Fresh apples can be kept at room temperature for few days and stored inside the refrigerator for upto two to three weeks. Wash them in clean running cold water before use.
Wash apples thoroughly in the running water to remove any surface dust, insecticide/fungicide sprays. Trim off its top end using a paring knife, and cut the fruit into two equal halves. Take out tiny, centrally placed, bitter seeds. Slice the fruit into desirable cubes or slices. 
Good yield demands close attention and supervision of apple fruit crop. According to the environmental-working group reports, apple fruit is one of the heavily pesticide-contaminated produce. The most common pesticides found on apple are organo-phosphorous and organo-chloride pesticides like Permethrin and DDT. Therefore, it is recommended to wash the fruit thoroughly before use. If possible, use organic certified apples.
"An apple a day keeps the doctor away" is an old Welsh proverb that most of us are familiar with, but what makes this fruit so special? What health benefits are associated with eating apples?
As one of the most cultivated and consumed fruits in the world, apples are continuously being praised as a "miracle food".
In fact, apples were ranked first in Medical News Today's featured article about the top 10 healthy foods.
Apples are extremely rich in important antioxidants, flavanoids, and dietary fiber.
The phytonutrients and antioxidants in apples may help reduce the risk of developing cancer, hypertension, diabetes, and heart disease.
This article provides a nutritional profile of the fruit and its possible health benefits. It also discusses the possible risks and precautions and some frequently asked questions.
A collection of research studies suggests that apples may well be one of the most healthy foods for you to include in your daily diet. Let's take a look at the studies and the possible health benefits suggested by them:
A 2006 study published in the journal Experimental Biology and Medicine found that quercetin (one of the antioxidants found abundantly in apples) was one of two compounds that helped to reduce cellular death that is caused by oxidation and inflammation of neurons.
 Another study presented at the same conference and published in the Journal of Alzheimer's Disease suggested that apple juice consumption may increase the production in the brain of the essential neurotransmitter acetylcholine, resulting in improved memory among mice who have Alzheimer's-like symptoms. 8
It should be noted that both studies were funded by unrestricted grants provided by the U.S. Apple Association and Apple Products Research and Education Council.
A study published in the Journal of Food Science in 2008 suggested that eating apples may have benefit for your neurological health. The researchers found that including apples in your daily diet may protect neuron cells against oxidative stress-induced neurotoxicity and may play an important role in reducing the risk of neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease.
A study involving 9,208 men and women showed that those who ate the most apples over a 28-year period had the lowest risk for stroke. The researchers concluded that the intake of apples is related to a decreased risk of thrombotic stroke.4
A group of researchers at The Florida State University stated that apples are a "miracle fruit". They found that older women who ate apples everyday had 23% less bad cholesterol (LDL) and 4% more good cholesterol (HDL) after just six months.
Apples could also help lower your risk of diabetes. A study involving 187,382 people found that people who ate three servings per week of apples, grapes, raisins, blueberries or pears had a 7% lower risk of developing type 2 diabetes compared to those who did not.
There is growing evidence suggesting that an apple a day may help prevent breast cancer, according to a series of studies conducted by prominent Cornell researcher Rui Hai Liu.
In a study published in the journal Food Chemistry in 2014, a team of researchers analyzed how the bioactive compounds of seven different varieties of apples - Granny Smith, Braeburn, Fuji, Gala, Golden Delicious, McIntosh and Red Delicious - affected the good gut bacteria of diet-induced obese mice.
The researchers found that, compared with all other apple varieties, Granny Smiths appeared to have the most beneficial effect on good gut bacteria. They suggest that their findings may lead to strategies that prevent obesity and its associated disorders. 
An apple a day is just as effective as statins in preventing vascular death. Researchers from the University of Oxford in the UK found that eating an apple everyday could be just as effective as statins in preventing vascular deaths among people over 50. 
Apples deserve to be called "nutritional powerhouses". They contain the following important nutrients: Vitamin C - a powerful natural antioxidant capable of blocking some of the damage caused by free radicals, as well as boosting the body's resistance against infectious agents, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center. Dietary fiber - the British National Health Service2 says that a diet high in fiber can help prevent the development of certain diseases and may help prevent the amount of bad cholesterol in your blood from rising. Phytonutrients - apples are rich in polyphenolic compounds". These phytonutrients help protect the body from the detrimental effects of free radicals. Minerals such as calcium, potassium, and phosphorus.
No serious side effects are linked to apple consumption.
Apple seeds contain contain cyanide, a powerful poison. Eating too many apple seeds can potentially be fatal. Apple seeds should not be consumed. These vitamins are key in maintaining red blood cells and the nervous system in good health.
In addition, because apples are fairly acidic, they could be up to four times more damaging to teeth than carbonated drinks, according to a study led by Professor David Bartlett at the King's Dental Institute.5
Professor Bartlett said that "snacking on acidic foods throughout the day is the most damaging, whilst eating them at meal times is much safer. It's not what you eat it's how you eat it - an apple a day is good, but taking all day to eat the apple can damage teeth."
Apples - three frequently asked questions
Should I eat the apple peel? - Most of the fiber and antioxidants are in the peel, says Dianne Hyson, Ph.D., R.D.6, a research dietitian at UC Davis in the Department of Internal Medicine.
What about pesticides on the peel? - Dr. Hyson says "Despite public misperceptions, laboratories have consistently found very low levels - if any - of pesticide residues on the skin of apples."
I have type 2 diabetes, can I eat apples? - According to the American Diabetes Association7, "Apples are a nutritious food and you can still eat them even if you have diabetes." The Association reminds people to eat the peel and advises on buying small apples (2.5 inches in diameter)
Black rot infections on apple fruit also become more obvious later in the season.
Copper fungicides have proved effective in Japan, and the reduction in their use has led to a resurgence of apple fruit rot.
It is concluded that the risk of introducing amylovora on commercial apple fruit and establishing new outbreaks of fireblight is so small as to be insignificant.
Apple fruit crinkle viroid causes a graft-transmissible disease affecting apple fruit and bark. 
Available in 300-ml glass bottles in five irresistible flavours (Orange Blend, Apple, Fruit Punch, Grape Nectar and Iced Tea), these satisfying drink
Fragrance: Offers a great deal of harmony between the apple and the delicate hint of vanilla.
In addition, a sudden freeze last Thanksgiving caused damage to fruit still not picked, impacting apple yields and increasing grading and disposal costs. 
Such a possibility would infringe the principle of fair
competition and wipe out European fruit juices, including apple juice.
Grab your Ninja blender and make one of our Apple Smoothie Recipes that if made daily just might keep the doctor away.
Did you know that apples are extremely rich in important antioxidants, flavanoids, and dietary fiber? Fresh apples can help to cleanse your system, aid in digestion, keep your blood sugar levels up and can lower your cholesterol.
Smoothie Preparation: Peel, if desired. Cut in half and remove the apple's core. Lay the 1/2 cut apple flat side down on a cutting board and cut into 1/2 inch pieces. Place apple slices into a zip-loc bag and freeze if desired.
I like apple juices.
